Generation Three
My Little Pony logo: red letters on large and small white hearts, outlined in red
Logo from the Generation 3.5 era (until mid-2010, but still used in some countries as of 2011)

The third incarnation of My Little Pony began in 2003 and is generally referred to Generation Three (G3) by collectors. The ponies live in Ponyville, which is centered around Celebration Castle. Only Earth Ponies were released from 2003 to 2005, but in 2005 and 2006 Pegasus Ponies and Unicorn Ponies were introduced.

Until late 2005, packaging came with Pony Points that were later used for exclusive mail orders. Unlike the G1 line, the Pony Points had to be mailed in to order; a customer could not pay a flat fee and add points to it to lower the price. Some of the ponies available with the Pony Points program were Dazzle Surprise, Sunshimmer and Love Wishes. Other merchandise included posters or a play mat to put buildings on. The points program ended on 31 January 2006.

While the line was simultaneously released in the U.S. and Europe, there are a few ponies unavailable in the U.S., such as Winter Snow and some small, fairy-like ponies called Breezies who first appeared in the animated feature The Princess Promenade. One of the most uncommon ponies in the G3 line was released by mistake in 2004. A Pinkie Pie with the words "2003 Licensing Show" embedded into her symbol was used to promote the My Little Pony toy line at the 2003 Spring Licensing Show, and were intended to be released only at that show in a limited edition of 300. Due to a packaging error, a few were packaged as regular ponies and sold in stores. Other limited-edition ponies have been the Pony Project promotional ponies and Rosey Posey, who was given to attendees at a charity dinner held by Hasbro.

Recognizing the older fans of its line, Hasbro has released special collector ponies noticeably different from the regular G3. While some had a general release as "Art Ponies", many are available through special events, such as the annual My Little Pony Collector's Convention and the San Diego Comic Con. These ponies are elaborately designed, such as the underwater-themed art pony which has fish and sea creatures printed all over its body, and come in matching display boxes. The 2011 SDCC pony is black and pink and has a kawaii skull instead of a "cutie mark". There is also a white pony available to customizers. Despite the G3 redesign as Core 7 and the advent of the G4 line, Hasbro has continued the collector-themed G3 ponies in their original poses.
Ponyville figurines

The Ponyville figurines are fully molded plastic and smaller than the main G3 line. Although they have their own playsets and accessories, many of the characters are the same as their larger counterparts.
Merchandise

A large amount of My Little Pony merchandise has been released for the third generation. The characters can be found on bedding and home decor, clothing, dishware, stationery and school supplies. Plush ponies have been given away as theme-park prizes and used in crane machines. There is a 3-foot (0.91 m) plush-pony line which was first available for sale in Australia; the characters include Rainbow Dash, Minty, Sweetberry, and the special Kimono, which was used as a prize by Red Rooster restaurants and Target. McDonald's has also featured ponies in its Happy Meal promotions, as have other fast food chains. Eight characters were used in the first U.S. McDonald's promotion, while other countries' chain restaurants had four.

Like other cartoon characters of the 1980s, My Little Pony merchandise aimed at young women has also appeared, including T-shirts depicting G1 ponies in a "retro" style, featuring slogans such as "Livin' in the 80s" or "I Love Rainbows". Hasbro sold the digital gaming rights based to their properties, including My Little Pony, Magic: The Gathering, Tonka, Playskool, and Transformers, to Infogrames for US$100 million in 2000, buying back the rights for US$65 million in June 2005.[2]
Core 7

In 2009 Hasbro redesigned the My Little Pony characters, and limited the ponies to seven main characters: Cheerilee, Toola-Roola, Pinkie Pie, Rainbow Dash, Scootaloo, Sweetie Belle and Starsong.
