Generation Four

The fourth and current incarnation of My Little Pony began in 2010 and is generally referred to Generation Four (G4) by collectors. It features nine characters tied into the TV show My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic, which airs on The Hub: Twilight Sparkle, Rainbow Dash, Fluttershy, Pinkie Pie, Applejack, Rarity, Spike the Dragon, Princess Celestia, and Princess Luna. Set in Equestria, the show centers around the unicorn pony Twilight Sparkle as she learns lessons about friendship. Most of the characters on the show were designed by animator Lauren Faust, who also developed the show for television.
Playful Ponies

The first line of Generation Four toys were the Playful Ponies. These feature a pony with brushable hair, a saddle or wagon, an animal companion and a comb. The first six ponies released were Twilight Sparkle, Rainbow Dash, Fluttershy, Pinkie Pie, Applejack and Rarity. There are also promotional packs: two-packs, released in Europe. Event Singles were also released in a particular month, including a Valentine's Day Pinkie Pie, released in February 2011, and an Easter Fluttershy, released in April 2011.

Hasbro later announced that the second wave of toys would be released in March 2011. Due to the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami, however, the release was postponed and the toys were released the following month. The second wave omits Rainbow Dash and Fluttershy and includes two new ponies: Cheerilee and Lily Blossom. The third wave was released in May 2011, introducing four new ponies: Cupcake, Lulu Luck, Dewdrop Dazzle and Blossomforth. Wave four was released in July 2011, introducing six new ponies: Feathermay, Flitterheart, Snowcatcher, Twinkleshine, Honeybuzz and Plumsweet.

The fifth wave was released in early 2012, with two new debuting characters: Cherry Pie and Diamond Rose. Later on in May 2012, Lyra Heartstrings, Trixie Lulamoon, Cherry Berry and Sunny Rays, characters who were originally from the animated series, also debuted as playful ponies.
Collector series

In the 2012 New York Toy Fair, Hasbro announced to release several exclusive My Little Pony toys for collectors. The characters represented were actually requested by fans of the animated series and were released in September 2012. The characters in this line include an animation accurate Princess Celestia, Nightmare Moon, DJ-P0n-3, Lemony Gem, Flower Wishes/Daisy and Zecora.
Story packs

Story Packs were the playsets of Generation Four. As in previous generations these playsets include at least one pony, one large playset piece and numerous accessories, and were released like the Playful Ponies. Story-pack exclusives include Sweetie Belle, Apple Bloom, Scootaloo, Sweetie Swirl, Star Swirl (Europe only), Princess Cadance and Shining Armor.
Ride-Along Ponies

The Ride-Along Ponies are special versions of the Playful Ponies, each with a scooter and an animal companion. Three sets were released in July 2011 with Wave Four of the Playful Ponies.
So-Soft Newborn

These versions are identical in design to their G3 counterparts, except they are plush-bodied and are designed to be resemble infants. There are seven characters are in this line: Sunny Daze, Sweetie Belle, Rainbow Dash, Pinkie Pie, Apple Sprout, Princess Skyla and Spike. Each of them includes a pacifier or bottle.
Shine Bright Ponies

The Shine Bright Ponies have a light-up section when their saddle is pressed. They are slightly bigger than the Playful Ponies, and their legs are poseable. The ponies Rarity, Pinkie Pie, and Rainbow Dash were released at first, and Fluttershy, Twilight Sparkle and Princess Luna were later released as Target Exclusives.
Fashion Style Ponies

Fashion Style Ponies are larger versions of the Playful Ponies, each with a unique dress and accessories. Two were released each wave.
Glimmer Wing Ponies

Inspired by the episode from the animated series title "Sonic Rainboom", the Glimmer Wing Ponies have butterfly-like wings on their backs which can be moved. The ponies are: Rainbow Dash, Rarity and Ploomette. In 2012, Daisy Dreams and Fluttershy were released. Later sets included Glimmer Wings Sweet Song and Fluttershy and Glimmer Wings Diamond Rose and Pinkie Pie.
Jumbo plush

Several jumbo-plush pony characters were released as Toys "R" Us exclusives. A Special Storyteller Twilight Sparkle Plush was released as a Target exclusive.
Ponyville singles

The Ponyville singles are small, molded plastic toys. The main method of distribution is in individual, opaque bags so that the toy inside cannot be seen. In the United States these toys have also been released in collector sets.
Canterlot

In July 2011, Hasbro agreed with Target to release an exclusive line centering around Canterlot, the capital city of Equestria, where Princess Celestia and Princess Luna live. The promotion included a theme area in stores with My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic stands and signage.
Pony Royal Wedding and the Crystal Empire

In 2012, Hasbro revealed several new toys in the 2012 New York Toy Fair, which coincided with the 2-part episodic arc in the second season of My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic. The toys and theme are based on the royal wedding between Princess Cadance and Shining Armor. Alongside the release of Princess Cadance and Shining Armor, several new characters were confirmed to be released as Playful Ponies as well as characters that were requested by the fans to be released in toy form. The promotion included a same themed area in stores with My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic stands a
